---
title: "Day 1 - random"
date: 2024-09-19 22:36:30 +0530
categories : [random]
tags: [my-day,rant] 
---

I'm not sure if you are aware yet but I'm preparing for the Graduate Record Exam (or GRE for short). I have decided to dream big...to achieve big, to live big, to learn big and meet big people. What else is a better place than the USA? Oh, yes, maybe I have fallen victim to the American pipe dream but hey, might as well make it a reality now that I have successfully fallen into it haha...

Anyways, preparing for the GRE is my main focus. Buuuut I also had to go to the college to get my class 10 marks sheet back because I need it to verify my passport details at the passport office. I'll get my passport about 7-8 days from now, which is September 27,2024. Getting this marks sheet was more of a hassle than I thought it would be. I have been looking to get the signature of the principal and the registrar for about 3 days now. They would always be busy when I try to reach out to them and I was forced to get back to them the next day. Mind you, the distance between home and college is nearly 40 Kms and that means travelling 80 Kms a day, instead of prepping for my GRE. Oh boy, I hated the trade-off. It didn't even seem worth it, considering how close my exams are (less than 7 weeks away). Well, in the end, I am happy that I could get it all done and dusted.

For this very reason, I was planning on taking a long leave and sit home to prepare for my exams but guess what? Even though I am in the final year and the classes have not started yet (Nor am I attending any job placements), I received a notification saying I will have to travel to college every single day to attend some training session (12 to 4 pm) because it is counted towards my academic grades this semester! WHY DO ME LIKE THIS?? WHY GOD, WHY?? This is such a sad thing for me right now. It will also increase the stress, burden and the count of sleepless nights. I'm so not looking forward for this but OK. I better get full points for doing this or else I'm throwing a tantrum. Oh and you guys will see a lot more blogs now, with me ranting and crying about these sleepless nights, so there's that. 

Other than all this, nothing much happened with my day at all. I say I've typed enough for a day. What I need is a good night's rest so that I can calm myself down and refuel myself for another day's hardwork. 

Good night.