---
title: "Day 1 - learning"
date: 2024-09-19 22:23:55 +0530
categories : [learning]
tags: [math,programming] 
---
This is supposed to be my first ever blog and I have no idea how to start this. I guess we will just get right into it then, shall we?

Let's start with math because that is what I studied the most today. I couldn't find most of my time, and if you wonder why, I've talked all about it in the other blog I'm going to publish in a few minutes. Anyways, back to the topic...I figured GRE Math isn't as easy as I thought it would be. IDEK why some of my friend made it seem so easy, maybe they are just that talented. I started studying algebra from GregMat plus (my online course) and solved a few questions from a textbook given to me by a friend of mine. Oh boy, they say "no calculus in GRE" but why is calculus hidden in the form of "functions"? I almost cried while finding this fact out because I have been underestimating GRE all along. I had to brush up the fundamentals from class 9 and class 10. Things like if I solved the equation of two lines, I would find the point of intersection, given there was just 1 solution. If there was no solution, the lines are parallel and if there was infinite solutions, the lines are the same. How cool is that? I didn't know I knew all this myself...like 5 years ago LoL. It is sad to see how much of math I have forgotten, all in the name of computer science.

My friend wouldn't stop bombarding me with fancy English vocab which he learned from Game of Thrones. I suppose you can still call this learning. "humdrum" means boring, y'all. Yeah.. How ironic it is to find learning about 'humdrum' so humdrum..it's funny because it's not. I genuinely need these words for GRE.

Now comes the EXCITING part. Programming!!! I learned about RAII (Resource Acquisition Is Initialization). Sheesh, sounds so fancy and complex, doesn't it? I learned about this even though I stopped using C++ as my primary language a month ago because now, I've chosen to dedicate my time for learning rust programming and to understand why rust is designed the way it is, I had to learn about C++. Why does Rust exist when C++ does? Obviously, it is trying to solve some problem and I had to learn about the problem first, before learning the solution and to get an idea of why Rust is the way it is.

In short, RAII is a design pattern that is not enforced but is considered as a good practice by the community. Why? because to prevent memory leaks and bugs in the code by trying to access data that doesn't exist in the memory or trying to delete the deleted memory again. Apparently, this leads to a security vulnerability and accounts for a huge portion of all bugs in the industry. To solve it, Rust has a concept called "Ownership and borrowing" where there can be only one owner for a value and one or more borrowers can "watch" this value. If a "watcher" wanted to alter the value, only one of the "watchers" can do so and the other "watchers" would have to stop watching while the borrower is altering the value. This is to prevent data race. Data race means you read the value before someone altered it. You are trying to eat food before it is served and when it is served, you are out of the restaurant. How devastating!

So Rust is pretty darn strict and my passion for rust is making me learn more about the other languages too, just so I can understand how powerful rust is. It is such a good thing. Rust is like a strict teacher who forces you to study hard. I guess I work a lot better when someone is forcing me to do it... a strict teacher is what I wanted, though I consider myself fairly a beginner in the large scale of developer community. I genuinely hope the hype and growth of Rust doesn't fall off for atleast the next 2 to 3 decades. Only then will I be able to fully utilise these skills I'm learning.

All this learning was done when I was away from home. I'm back home and typing this all down. This is probably all the learning I'll be able to do before the day ends. I hope to wake up early in the morning and get back to work and learn a lot more because there is no classes tomorrow. 

Signing off for the day, with a Sanskrit quote:

Adhyayanam na tu nirantaram yatra sajjanasya karmasu: Learning is not merely about continuous study; it is also about aligning one’s actions with those of virtuous individuals.

Thanks for the read :)